these are the heart of your system hi
and welcome back to a new video as you
could judge by the title of this video
we are building again a PC for another
youtuber here in Germany I would
classify him as survival youtuber he
he's pretty famous in Germany for doing
a special version of a Mercedes g-class
where he could live inside the car and
also was building some tree houses on
Madeira
so quite interesting stuff and he
recently contacted me and said because
of the current situation staying at home
he also wants to play more games start
streaming and therefore he needs a PC
and that's what we're going to build in
today's video and I also like the way he
is looking at things because I talked to
him on the phone and comparing
especially to the previous build which
we were doing for German youtuber he has
a completely different view on things he
for example doesn't like to have his p
season sitting next to him on his desk
he wants to have it underneath his desk
it's just a piece that has to work as
silent as possible and the looks is not
important so we don't need a case that
has for example tempered glass side we
can go on silent and noise tempering
cases so I think this will be quite
interesting and in a completely
different build yeah let's just start
for this build I decided to go for X 570
as a base and I didn't want to go for
AMD threat because frits also said that
in his opinion we should go for
something that makes more sense and is
more affordable than going for AMD
threat River because obviously it's a
massive platform but the main boards are
so much more expensive and you can get
24 32 64 C a core CPUs but it's not
necessary for for what he wants to do
for most of what youtubers are doing for
basic streaming gaming and video editing
12 cores 16 cores are absolutely fine
that's why we decided to go for X 570
instead of AMD thread Ripper I decided
to go for the 39 50 X 16 cores should be
more than enough decided to go for the
MSI x5 70 creation mainboard mainly
because it has good voltage regulators
it has a nice design when it comes to
the cooling because you have this heat
that's connecting the PCH and also the
BRM cooling block that's something I
really appreciate and it has 10 G LAN
which is one of the main aspects that he
also said would be interesting and most
other boards except for I think one ass
work board they are like 800 900 euros
that why that's why I went for the MSI
x5 70 creation we are going to use an MP
510 from Corsair 2 terabyte nvme drive
generation 3 not generation 4 because
the benefit for generation 4 over 3 is
not that much especially if you consider
how much more expensive they are how
much higher the power consumption is and
temperatures and all of that that's why
I thought MP 510 with 2 terabyte is more
than enough we're going to use two
sticks vengeance lpx total 64 gigabytes
we have 2 x 32 gigabyte sticks and
unfortunately they were only available
right now for 3,000 megahertz speed I
would like to go for 3200 but 3200 I
couldn't find or they were not available
that's why I went for 3000 mega Hertz I
think it's still fine to use this kind
of memory speed and I decided to go for
only 2 sticks mainly because if he ever
decides or if he notices that the memory
is not enough then he can just buy
another kid of those plug it in and
upgrade to 128 gigabyte and that should
be plenty for the next few years
ok let's start assembly of the bundle
[Music]
for CPU cooling we're using the aqua
computer Krios next cpu cooling block in
general I picked it mainly because it
doesn't have have RGB it's a little bit
cheaper than the rest and it has an
absolutely stunning build quality
it's the nickel uh turtle version black
PM on top and nickel plated copper base
it's also fairly cheap it's not really
really cheap it's still 60 euro but
comparing it to the rest on the market I
think it's a reasonable price for this
block and should have very good cooling
performance
[Music]
quick look at the MSI x5 70 creation
motherboard going to put the nvme drive
in here both of those slots would be
generation 4 if you're going to use them
but in my case it doesn't matter because
I'm using only a generation 3 drive the
main decision when it comes to the
heatsink why I picked this board is
because apart from the fact that we have
a heat pipe that is connecting all of
the BRM cooling blocks and also the PCH
or fch cooling block is also the fact
that this block has a sufficient amount
of surface area if you compare it with
other chipset coolers most of them don't
really have so much surface area and
therefore the fan is often required to
spin in this case it's already connected
with the vrm cooling docks and because
the CPU will not be overclocked the
power consumption is not that high
therefore most of the chipset heat can
also be dissipated through the other
heatsink so that should be safe and in
most cases this fan should not spin
[Music]
looking at the IO shield of this board
we have 13 times USB in this case most
of them are USB 3.0 that we also have
USB type-c right here we have 2 times
LAN one of them is 10 3 audio right here
which doesn't really matter because
we're going to use a dedicated audio
card anyway and then we have Wi-Fi and
also ps2 next step is GPU assembly I
picked an RT X xx atti from EVGA EVGA
didn't really matter in this case
because I was just looking for the
cheapest RT X 28 ETI
which is available where I can mount a
full cover water block first I thought
maybe I would just go for air cooling
for the full build but the focus is
really to have it as silent as possible
and even those aftermarket coolers even
though they're good they still have some
kind of noise level at a certain point
if you're in 3d if you're gaming
therefore I decided to go for custom
water cooling but I wanted to keep the
custom water cooling loop as cheap as
possible because really it does not
matter if the GPU is running at 45
degree Celsius or at 50 degree Celsius
nothing will be overclocked neither CPU
nor GPU that's why the exact cooling
performance did not matter the focus is
only that it's going to be silent it's
going to be the ek full cover block in
the classic version because it's mainly
a little bit cheaper than the other
blocks it's also available or it comes
with RGB we didn't want to have RGB but
and I think there was no choice to go
without it
[Music]
we quickly talking about the water
cooling components I decided to go for
the Arctic p12 PWM 120-millimeter fans I
tested those fans for a casekingtv
youtube video where we were comparing a
lot of different fans and those fans are
actually really really good especially
for the price one of those fans is about
seven euros in the case king store
therefore very affordable and especially
if you compare it to the performance and
also the noise level those fans are
really really good I can absolutely
recommend these and seven euro per piece
fairly cheap we have seven of those fans
in total six of them will go on to
radiators we have magical 360 slim
radiators those should be absolutely
sufficient for 3950 ex and twenty atti
both will be not overclocked so the
power consumption is not that high and
if we compare the prices of those for
example with some coarser RGB fans I
think most of the coarser RGB fans are
somewhere between 25 and 30 euro per
piece we're basically getting seven
normal fans which are quite good for the
price of two RGB fans that's actually
quite a big difference most people think
of magical as a quite cheap and maybe
not that great manufacturer but quality
wise they are really really good and
magical is also a big OAM for a lot of
other radiator brands so they're
producing a lot of stuff and they have a
significant amount of experience when it
comes to producing radiators so I can
ensure you that the quality of those is
quite good and especially comparing the
price one of them is about 47 euro here
in Germany and that's almost half the
price of one of the EK PE radiators
[Music]
main board is already in place I'm just
about to remove the front fence there
are three fans at total included in the
case three times 140 millimeter and I'm
going to keep the one in the rear for
exhaust I'm going to use the three 120
millimeter fans in the front as intake
and also going to use the three on top
for EXO's that should be a good
combination especially because in the
front we will have a dust filter should
be good intake and then only exhaust on
the rear and on top
[Music]
I'm again using an e kd5 reservoir pump
combination this is time with the glass
reservoir which is something I really
like because typically you don't see any
kind of residues sticking to the inside
of the glass so it's really nice for
long-term use and also using this fan
mounting bracket to attach it to the
radiator
[Music]
I'm using a sea sonic Prime fanless
titanium PSU for today's build as the
name implies it's a famous piece you
therefore know fan inside no active
components this should further reduce
the noise that's possibly coming out of
the system I know that most peers use
nowadays our say my passive anyway but
with no fan at all we're definitely
reducing the noise even more it can in
theory deliver up to 600 watt which
should be absolutely sufficient for a 16
core AMD and a 20 80 TI
[Music]
to give frits a little bit of extra
audio quality I decided to go for the
asus essence STX 2 which is a very very
good audio solution has a full-size
audio jack therefore suitable for most
of the high quality audio and streaming
microphones which was something that is
really really important to him to have a
very good audio quality on his screen
[Music]
already performed the first performance
tests the system is completely silent
all fans are currently set to about 700
rpm and especially if you attach the
side panels is absolutely impossible to
hear anything from this build times by
extreme score just about 7,000 points
which is a normal result for 2080 ti in
combination with a 3950 X which is
running at stock maximum GPU temperature
in this case was 46 degree Celsius which
i think is absolutely fine considering
that I'm running the lowest fan speed
possible the CPU peaked out at 78
degrees Celsius during a physics test of
3d mark x but extreme and of erm
temperature peaked out at 59 degrees
Celsius cinnamon or 20 score is also in
line with just above 9000 to 100 points
now I'm going to perform one hour of
stress test with the system closed and
then we will be back with final
temperature results I just tested the
system about one hour with prime95 and
fir mark at the same time prime95 also
using a VX that's why the CPU
temperature is relatively high when it
comes to the max the maximum CPU
temperature was 86 degrees Celsius but
that was only the peak I only saw it for
a couple of seconds typically it was
between 65 and 70 degrees Celsius even
in prime95 while running fur mark means
that the BGA was loaded with maximum of
53 degrees Celsius and the VM
temperature of the main board was
maximum 69 degree Celsius I think all of
those temperatures are absolutely fine
considering that we're running the fans
at the lowest rpm possible therefore at
the lowest noise level and especially
running prime95 on 16 cores and then fir
mark at the same time that should be the
maximum system load that's possible and
it's quite warm in my room right now
about 24 to 25 degree Celsius therefore
this system should be absolutely safe to
use in any condition because typically
when are you going to fully utilize GPU
and CPU at this level I don't think this
is going to happen that's why I think
the result is quite cool the total
system price was about 4300 euro if you
don't need a sound card it's just above
4,000 euro
and considering that you're getting 16
cores and the 28 TTI and fully
accustomed water-cooled I think this is
an absolutely reasonable price obviously
doesn't have have RGB because you can
you're not gonna see it for the P 600 s
as I said before we're not using the
tempered-glass version we're using the
normal steel side panel and it has some
noise absorbing stuff in on the inside
therefore it makes it also quite a
little bit more heavy but should help in
reducing or further reducing the noise
if this system is closed you really
absolutely cannot hear anything and you
could reduce it further if you would
hear anything but you don't for the P
600 s you can also close the top and the
front but this would further restrict
airflow and therefore you should
probably or you have to or you probably
have to use a higher rpm on the fence
therefore I think it's not going to be
better
I think it's smarter to run very low rpm
so you cannot hear the fence and have a
better airflow that's why I will keep
the system this way quite happy with the
result of this system I hope that Fitz
will have a very very nice time
streaming with this Ricky will send it
over to him on Monday
let's end this video with some close-up
shots on the system thanks for joining
in and see you next time
[Music]